When I was six years old I once saw a magnificent image in a book about the Virgin Forest called “Lived Stories”.
It represented a boa snake swallowing a beast. Here is the copy of the drawing.
The book said: “Boa snakes swallow their prey whole, without chewing it.
Then they can no longer move and they sleep during the six months of their digestion. »
I then thought a lot about the adventures of the jungle and, in turn, I managed, with a colored pencil, to trace my first drawing.
My number 1 drawing. It looked like this:
I showed my masterpiece to the adults and asked them if my drawing scared them.
They answered me: “Why would a hat be scary? »
My drawing did not represent a hat.
It depicted a boa snake digesting an elephant.
I then drew the inside of the boa snake, so that adults could understand.
They always need explanations.
My drawing number 2 was like this:
Grown-ups advised me to leave aside drawings of open or closed boa snakes, and to focus instead on geography, history, arithmetic and grammar.
This is how, at the age of six, I abandoned a magnificent career as a painter.
I had been discouraged by the failure of my drawing number 1 and my drawing number 2.
Grown-ups never understand anything on their own, and it’s tiring for children to always and always give them explanations.
So I had to choose another profession and I learned to fly planes.
I have flown all over the world.
And geography, it’s true, was very useful to me.
I knew how to recognize, at first glance, China from Arizona.
This is very useful if you get lost during the night.
Over the course of my life, I have had lots of contacts with lots of serious people.
I have lived a lot with grown-ups. I saw them very closely.
It did not really improve my opinion.
When I met one who seemed a little lucid to me, I would experiment on her with my number 1 drawing which I have always kept.
I wanted to know if she was really understanding.
But she always answered me: “It’s a hat.” »
So I didn't talk to him about boa snakes, or virgin forests, or stars.
I put myself within his reach.
I talked to him about bridge, golf, politics and ties.
And the grown-up was very happy to know such a reasonable man.